1.Most popular HVs are MS Windows Server and VmWare Esxi 


I will try to compare them based on my own practice:

2. Esxi is monolytic hypervisor. It should be use proprietary drivers. Besides, it has a commission of performance. About 3-5%
MS Windows HV is microkernel hypervisor. It has simple partition functionality. No proprietary drivers
Teacher told me that it has most stability, but I don't agree because it is Windows!


VmWare Esxi and MS Windows Server - Proprietary Hypervisors
There are business solutions. There are enterprise solutions.
Limitations in the free version for VmWare Esxi is 1 processor, 32 GB of memory


Organization for MS Windows Server is the need for licensing for each individual virtual machine
There is also no GUI, but there is a remote console


Если лицензироваться, то VMware — самое дорогое решение, Hyper-V — дешевле (или при использовании Hyper-V Server и виртуальных машин с Linux — вообще бесплатное), 
Впрочем, необходимо учитывать еще и стоимость лицензий программного обеспечения, которое будет установлено в виртуальных машинах. Именно поэтому Hyper-V значительно дешевле VMware — при использовании VMware вам все равно придется покупать лицензии на гостевые ОС.
Hyper-V значительно дешевле и производительнее в гиперконвергентных решениях.

If licensed, then VMware is the most expensive solution, Hyper-V is cheaper (or when using Hyper-V Server and Linux virtual machines it’s generally free),
However, you must also take into account the cost of software licenses that will be installed in virtual machines. That is why Hyper-V is much cheaper than VMware - when using VMware, you still have to buy licenses for guest OSs.
Hyper-V is significantly cheaper and more productive in hyper-converged solutions.

VMware has Fault Tolerance, MS Windows Server - not yet
Hyper-V does not have tools like Distributed Resource Scheduler or Storage DRS, which VMware uses to balance the load between host resources

Kysovskiy Dmitiry